$y Personal $y Log: Joseph Castin, assigned GTCv Phantom
$y Date: October 20, 2367
$y --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It's been one month already. No sign yet of any help coming. I've been using the time to try to understand what we've been through. I decided to use ETAK again, and I am glad that I did. The Outcasts have explained to me the reason for the destruction of Capella. I can barely believe it myself, but it does make sense, and the Outcasts have never hidden anything from me during a mind link.

I should start at the beginning. The Outcasts were around during the Great War. In fact, the Daksha was one of the Lucifer's support ships. Apparently, when the Lucifer was destroyed in subspace, rupturing the Sol node, some sort of chain reaction struck through the subspace connection all Shivans share. This separated the remnants of the Lucifer fleet from the rest of the Shivans forever. Most of the fleet was able to escape Terran space and became what the Outcasts are today. The Shivans the GTA and PVN managed to hunt down were the confused and suffering stragglers of this subspace catastrophe.

As the Outcasts have explained to me, the Shivans are more focused now on exterminating the Outcasts than on destroying the GTVA. I'm not sure if it was our alliance with the Outcasts or the GTVA's forays into the nebula beyond Gamma Draconis that prompted them to strike into the GTVA again. This time, the Outcasts say, the Shivan fleet moved cautiously, fearful of catching whatever 'disease' afflicted the Outcasts. Capella was the first system to be cleansed by fire in the Shivans' quest to eliminate the danger the Outcasts represent.

The Outcasts are convinced that the Shivans are not done with the GTVA, not in the least, but by sealing the Capellan nodes humanity has earned itself a reprieve, if only for a short time. I'm not sure what to do with this knowledge. I haven't shared it with the Phantom's crew. If we're ever rescued, I don't know if the GTVA will be able to accept the Outcasts if they hear this. And I believe now more than ever that this alliance may be the only hope we have left. So, for now, the truths behind the Great War and Capella's destruction will remain locked inside my head.